code-editor/index.rst, before:

.. include:: ../_header.rst
   
.. highlight:: javascript

Code Editor
===========

.. toctree::

    vscode-compatibility
    js-editor

|PhaserEditor|_ is focused mainly on provide design tools. You can code your game using advanced third-party editors. 

You can use any coding editor, but we recommend |vscode|_. Actually, the projects generated by the IDE are full compatible with that editor and includes the configuration files.

However, we included code editors inside |PhaserEditor|_ for two reasons:

* You can do a quick preview of the code.

* If you are making a first prototype with JavaScript.

In |core|_, the code editing editors are based in |codemirror|_, and have very basic features. In |allInOne|_, the code editors are based on the |MonacoEditor|_. It is the same component used by |vscode|_, and is good enough for coding plain JavaScript games.

The `JavaScript editor <js-editor.html>`_ has more features, allowing |PhaserAPI|_ auto-completion, cross-file auto-completion and more.

Commit message:

Updates the Code Editor section.

code-editor/index.rst, after:

.. include:: ../_header.rst
   
.. highlight:: javascript

Code Editor
===========

.. toctree::

    vscode-compatibility
    js-editor

|PhaserEditor|_ is focused mainly on provide design tools. You can code your game using advanced third-party editors. 

You can use any coding editor, but we recommend |vscode|_. Actually, the projects generated by the IDE are full compatible with that editor and includes the configuration files.

However, we included basic code editors inside |PhaserEditor|_ so you can do a quick preview or modification of the code.

These editors are based based in |codemirror|_, and have very basic features. 

I previous versions of the editor, we included an advanced JavaScript code editor based on the VS Code Monaco library. However, we removed it in v3.35.0 of the editor. We encourage you using advanced editors like VS Code.

Phaser Editor 2D runs on the desktop or in the cloud, and you can find excelent code editors in both environments. Especially, those editors based on Visual Studio Code. Learn how Phaser Editor 2D integrates with Visual Studio Code in the `next section <vscode-compatibility.html>`_.
