asset-pack-editor/import-from-blocks-view.rst, before:


.. include:: ../_header.rst

Import files from the Blocks view
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `Blocks view <../workbench/blocks-view.html>`_ is a general-purpose view that connects with the active editor and provides the "blocks" needed to build the objects of the editor.

When the |AssetPackEditor|_ is active, the `Blocks view`_ shows the files that are candidates to be imported. A file is a candidate to be imported if:

* The file belongs to the folder, or sub-folder, of the |AssetPackFile|_ that is the input of the editor. Unless you disable this restriction (see at the end of this section).

* The file is not present in any other pack file of the project.

* If the file has a content type or file name extension that we know is never loaded in games: 

 * TypeScript files (``.ts``).

 * |SceneEditor|_ files (``.scene``).

 * Another |AssetPackFile|_.

The workflow is the following:

#. Select the files to be imported in the |BlocksView|_.

#. Select one of the importing options listed in the **Import File** section of the  |InspectorView|_.

  .. image:: ../images/asset-pack-add-file-from-blocks-view-02242021.webp
   :alt: Import files from Blocks view.

#. When the files are imported, edit the new configurations in the |InspectorView|_.

This is a shorter workflow, you select the files you want to import and the editor automatically provides you the options to import the files, based on the content type and name of the files.

Showing all files in the Blocks view
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As we mentioned before, the Blocks view only show the files are in the same folder (or sub-folder) of the pack file. You can disable this restriction by checking the **Show All Files in Project** settings in the Inspector view:

.. image:: ../images/asset-pack-show-all-files-in-blocks-20210529.webp
  :alt: Show all files in the Blocks view.

Commit message:

Use 'Import File' terminology; English fixes

asset-pack-editor/import-from-blocks-view.rst, after:


.. include:: ../_header.rst

Importing from the Blocks view
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The |BlocksView|_ is a general-purpose view that connects with the active editor and provides the "blocks" needed to build the objects of the editor.

When the |AssetPackEditor|_ is active, the `Blocks view`_ shows the files that are candidates to be imported. A file is a candidate to be imported if:

* The file belongs to the folder, or sub-folder, of the |AssetPackFile|_ that is the input of the editor (unless you disable this restriction, as discussed at the end of this section).

* The file is not present in any other |AssetPackFile|_ in the project.

* If the file has a content type or file name extension that we know is never loaded in games: 

 * TypeScript files (``.ts``).

 * |SceneEditor|_ files (``.scene``).

 * Another |AssetPackFile|_.

These are the steps:

#. Select the files to be imported in the |BlocksView|_.

#. Select one of the importing options listed in the **Asset Pack Entry** section of the |InspectorView|_.

  .. image:: ../images/asset-pack-add-file-from-blocks-view-02242021.webp
   :alt: Import files from Blocks view.

#. When the files are imported, edit the new configurations in the |InspectorView|_.

This is simpler than using the |MainToolbar|_ button: once you select the files the editor shows only the relevant importing options, based on their content type and name.

Showing all files in the Blocks view
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As we mentioned before, the Blocks view only shows the files in the same folder (or sub-folder) as the |AssetPackFile|_. You can disable this restriction by checking the **Show All Files in Project** settings in the Inspector view:

.. image:: ../images/asset-pack-show-all-files-in-blocks-20210529.webp
  :alt: Show all files in the Blocks view.
